thanks for watching this animated spell
book brought to you by a paid
sponsorship for the deck of minis
animated spell cards casbolt is a first
level sorcerer only spell that creates a
warbling bolt of energy that launches at
a target you choose it's a spell with a
lot of edge cases not because it creates
a bolt of energy feels like the baleful
can do that but because the damage type
of this bolt of energy is determined by
the damage roll if it hits you roll to
d8 + 1 d6 + choose one of the d8 the
number on that da determines the energy
type of the spell is it acid cold fire
force lightning poisoned psychic or
thunder it's a level 1 spell so damage
output why is it sound already doing ok
2d 8 + 6 but the random energy type
definitely makes it harder to optimize
against specific enemies here's where it
gets crazy
rolling the same number on both das
makes the bolt leap to a different
creature of your choice within 30 feet
of it you roll an attack against them
and then determine element type the same
way you did the first time and it can
jump again except two targets it's
already hit this round 2d eights will
always have a 1 in 8 or 12.5 percent
chance of rolling the same thing as each
other which is actually pretty high the
chance to jump twice is something like
1.5% before the first roll and the
likelihood of rolling a bigger chain
gets smaller and smaller with each
expected link that said this is the
first spell we've talked about that
doesn't have a finite maximum damage in
a round because as many creatures as it
can jump to multiplied by as many
doubles as he can roll is how much
damage it can do so if you have 8
billion people standing in a line all 30
feet apart it can do up to 16 billion d8
+ 8 billion d6 damage in 6 seconds which
isn't bad for an unmodified first level
spell thanks for watching this video
brought to you by a paid sponsorship for
the deck of many coms animated spell
cards they're making 5 V reference cards
with lenticular lenses on the front and
all the info you need on the back this
weekend you can find them at PAX East
booth 8090 for stay tuned
host notes I'm here with my buddy Jacob
buds from XP to level 3 and he and I are
gonna talk sorceress death sorcerer is
one of hit sorcerers one of his favorite
classes and so I let's just jump in um
how do you feel about a new sorcerer
exclusive spell
I love sorcerer exclusive spells really
really love it because the sorcerer is
just constantly leeching off the wizard
to begin with and I want them to be
their own thing and that's what I want
with every class I want them to be their
own thing I already really dislike that
it's the same thing for bards as well
and I love having unique spells for
classes because it it just like it makes
them feel that much more unique instead
of just being like I can cast this spell
and Wizards like oh I can also cast that
so chaos bolt is like one of my favorite
spells in the game I love it so much
just because it's just weird and random
and it's just like let's see what
happens but and it's like only the
sorcerer gets it and that's what's so
fun about it makes it really really
unique and super interesting yeah no I
mean I agree with all of that and
speaking of that with sorcerers I think
that and I talked about this videos in
terms of backstory and characters I like
Sorcerer's but I think sorcerers are
like the perfect cross class next to
warlocks they are such a good class to
just be like I'm a fighter and then
suddenly I have magic it's it's just
it's just perfect
and it also works really well because
it's a really simple class so you get to
like you don't have to manage your
spells all too much yeah that's a good
point I mean like for me sorcerers were
my first real spell casting class in 5th
edition and that was because I tried to
make a wizard in 3.5 it took me it took
me about four tries to actually complete
my first wizard in 3.5 and then I played
him for a while it's gank Magan who
isn't helping he's just like a
relentless [__] and and that was at
least partially because I was like I
don't want to roll up another wizard
this was really difficult
it's difficult and so I was like okay
I'm gonna make a sorcerer and it's even
highlighted I think in my in my true
strike video so my first swing at a
sorcerer was like I'm gonna make him
like a cool like adept almost from you
know he's gonna stare into that scorpion
and know his every move yeah and see it
all happen and then just miss and then
just have a scorpion hit him anyway it's
oh yeah yeah and he got dropped so fast
that I was like okay I need to talk to
Elliot who's the DM and he also comes up
in some of the videos and it was just
like Elliot basically just went he's a
new cur you do you have to think of him
like a Carrie from dota right yeah and
as soon as he said that I started to
think about meta magic in a different
way and I also at that point was
starting to figure out how important the
action economy is and so started really
leaning in heavily into like how can I
squeeze as much damage out of every turn
as possible to just completely like
throw off whoever we're up against so
okay my favorite meta magic sort of nuke
at lower levels is to I think use a
began as a beginners have been hazards I
don't know how to say his name passers
blazer right nazar scorcher yeah you lie
to roaring flame 30 feet long five feet
wide I've never cast this spell before
who can cast this sorcerers and wizards
why can't it just be sorcerer
sorry it's up before before you dive
into what is gonna be a great combo let
let me restate it's not that it's quick
and spell what's the one where the
scorching ray what's watching raid those
are the ones that do three yes
yeah yeah scorching rate just three yeah
quick and spell scorching way like
scorching ray and then then with my
actual action twin up a little fireball
I'm actually blushing it how much I
[__] that up I didn't even have a
written down because I was like I know
this I do it all the time okay so that
said what's what's your favorite meta
magic nuke yeah it's difficult I I mean
the obvious nukes bill is fireball but
like I have a I have a really fun way to
cast fireball but I really really enjoy
I I have a secret love for subtle spell
because oh it only just because it sucks
so much and and it wouldn't suck if we
would play up how magic is actually
supposed to be which is that verbal and
somatic are supposed to be like like
very obvious yes yeah
yeah and players are we just like I'm
just gonna sneak elite cast a charm
person at that guy right over there and
it's like well you can't do that when
you cast star person it's like jaw
person and it's like okay we all know
you're doing it because then the
sorcerer can just go oh that [__] just
happened just directly in front of them
and and what in what it does is it makes
them really sneaky but it's cool because
you can get rid of the somatic and
verbal components you still need the
material ones but you just have to have
the material meaning that you can just
cast spells and they just happen around
you so a really fun way to explain it if
you want to be weird about it and just
waste a meta magic on it but I think
it's fun for character flavor is to just
have spells go off but you don't even
know they're happening you're just kind
of like you're just talking to a person
and then suddenly they're charmed and
you're like oh cool that works and it
you know it just goes along and you
don't have to do all the casting aspects
and I think that's a cool flavor way to
play a sorcerer i but i think mike so
okay so adding to that maybe the eye the
eye taking that concept and like
launching deep into it you could you
could conceivably make a story where
it's like you know possession or a
spirit or your magic is like your magic
is related to
guardian spirit of some kind that's just
taking care of her yeah that would be
awesome
they need it's just spells going off
that are helping you that's yeah and
because then then that also allows in
your meta magic a little bit of
metagaming like because the player knows
that there's a problem but the character
is oblivious so there's just like you're
[__] who did that that wasn't me
and then you have to play wild magic
because then just even more right now
stuff goes on you just don't know what's
happening favorite option oh sorry
what you were in the middle of saying
something no no okay so for viewers we
are speaking from literal I think almost
as far away from each other on the
planet as we can so that easy are you
saying that we are not in the same room
right now we're not okay just to just to
demonstrate I'm gonna clap and then you
clap when you hear this clap okay ready
yeah
that's wild here you do it once and
you'll see what I'm talking about
you start a sentence and I'm like oh
[__] they're like stop because exactly
there's a lot of predictions we're able
to talk to each other so it's alright
yes but yeah so adding to adding to what
you were just saying though wild magic
unless you push that concept real far
and it is your draconic ancestor who's
helping you out okay cool you're like a
not warlock yeah yeah look my other
favorite meta magic to do is is through
unearthed Arcana which I've talked about
that in other if there kana is weird
it's not official and that's how it
should be until it is official but there
is a really fun concept I liken it that
I kind of like to homebrew into my games
there was this under Kannada came out a
little while ago was like um it was a
class variants is what it's called and
there was this one for sorcerer there's
a meta magic option and it's I loved it
so much I wanted to
the game so badly is excuse me is you
can change the damage type you spend a
sorcery point and you can change the
damage type of your spell to specific
damage so it can only be acid fire
lightning thunder and a cold I think is
the only ones that you can do but the
thought of an acid ball or a Thunder
ball is so cool and so up the Sorcerer's
Alley right down of the chaos bolt as
well where you just like elements and
you're just controlling them and they're
just exploding everywhere like that's so
II that's the wizard kid do that oh yeah
for sure
but well it that's an interesting thing
I feel like I would allow that maybe I
missed my [__] Segway well we're on
meta magic which were not anymore
I should just because of what the
episode was about which is chaos vault
go into a little bit of extra detail
about that and so before we go any
further I'm terrible at probability
stuff so I reached out to Twitter asking
what the chance of a cast bulk jumping
once it hit was and was answered with a
resounding 12.5% which is one and eight
but some people came up with some
interesting ways to enhance the chance
of a jump specifically since the source
were only we've got to talk about meta
magic and the biggest way to do this
would be with empowered spell because
empowered schoo allows a sorcerer to
choose to reroll up to their charisma
modifier in damage dice when they roll
damage somebody named groove drift track
groove drift Ron on Twitter contributed
a bunch of helpful info and math Oh on
this and I'm too dumb to double check it
and he wrote that that means that if
you're using empowered and empowered
chaos bolt your chance of jumping goes
from 12.5% all the way up to twenty
three point four percent
once it hits and if you want to triple
down you can take the elemental adept
cold or if you really want to get into
the weeds you can take elemental adept
acid probably just take cold because
with acid you've got to figure out
what's the order of operations and what
elemental adept does is it makes it so
that if you roll a one of this of a
chosen type of damage you can treat that
role as a two if you want so that'll
make it so that anytime you're rolling a
one into two those are going to be
matched up on to if your elemental adept
cold right because you just go I'm
choosing the damaged dive cold that
means these are both twos that means it
jumps and that sorry go ahead
maximum chaos maximum chaos what's
awesome about it though is that you
would be jumping like to another target
almost a third of the time if you had
elemental adept and empowered spell @
32.2 1% so I think I mean it doesn't
break it but if you build a whole
character around it I'm sure that you're
gonna have some really interesting funny
turns that's okay that's amazing
you just just completely maximize that
spell which is just so cool oh yeah I
mean there's some lot of fun stuff you
can do for sure there's some people who
say that you can't win it but I don't
think that you can no because the
targets another creature yeah like if
the spell is able to target another
creature than you can't unless the
wording is weird and I'm wrong but I
would think off the top of my head you
can't because twin it just if it hits
more than one you can't do it no I and I
agree with that the wording is pretty
solid but that's not gonna stop people
from doing it it's true and what's the
what's the other thing with chaos ball
oh there was somebody who was saying
that you could multi-class with tempest
cleric and if you
did and since it can technically do
Thunder damage you could maximize that
which would force a double that's
randomly land on thunder and then just
just explode all over the place so so
now the problem though is that with
elemental adept it works because it says
that it treats the role as though it's a
two but with the tempest cleric I think
it just it says you like ignore the role
in do maximum damage right so I think it
doesn't change the role although I don't
know as a DM I think if somebody went
this heart into just making one what
first level spells it wouldn't be the
worst thing in the world you just all I
would do is make you know three or four
extra characters in the encounter for
them to just blow through that would be
so cool though just to getting that off
and just being like it just a domino
effect of explosions that's so fun yeah
but [__] okay so that's alright that's
my dude oh my dude Jill against my due
diligence ton for for chaos vault now
you have spoken publicly and earlier in
in this sorcerer talk about how you'd
like them to have a few extra spells and
well yeah I remember that you have
created a few including invigorate yeah
I draw like blast uh-huh and mud ball
and mud ball mud balls another one yeah
there was mud fall and Bumble and all of
these spells I kinda had stole from
Pathfinder a little bit but I altered
them a little to make them a little bit
more fun for a fifth edition
especially mud ball I just love that
spot I think it's great but uh yeah
hydraulic blast is I feel like they're
these people
water spells okay there's not enough and
hydraulic blast is literally just
conjuring a hose and you can knock
people over it's kind of like which bolt
you can keep it up but you can like keep
hitting people with it over and over
again and it does damage an ox and prone
it's just funny to be for like
especially like a sorcerer just being
like oh definitely I I especially I mean
I know that I know that it's meant to
keep keep going but the imagery of just
like somebody being and just [__]
yeah it's great
mudball it basically functions like acid
splash you hurl a ball of mud and you
can make two people blind if you want
and that's pretty much just from
pathfinder invigorate though this one's
a little different so I have a new rule
in my campaign where if you hit zero hit
points you take a level of exhaustion
where instead of doing massive damage
that's what we're gonna run with because
I feel like that's a little bit more
fitting and if you just short rest you
can get rid of it it'll help out but for
those squishier classes who need help
who don't have you know get a you know
second wind or anything to help
themselves get back up from the fight
like the sorcerer this way this spell
invigorate you rejuvenate your body and
remove a level of exhaustion when the
spell ends you are overwhelmed with
lethargy and suffered two levels of
exhaustion so it's in it lasts for four
hours so for four hours you can get rid
of that first level of exhaustion but at
the end of those four hours you're gonna
take two so it's like you get tired but
it is the first level spell so you could
keep casting it but I think if you cast
it more than three times you will die
because I think six levels of exhaustion
means death yeah you just yeah you just
instantly died but okay so here's the
thing
all right as much as I love giving
sorcerers more spells that feels very
warlock II it is kind of warlock II
write like because we're like getting
this sort of external strength with
strings 100% attached
that is really I need to give it to
warlocks too because that makes a lot of
sense I think I also give it to Barnes
and artificers okay so that exclusive
and that's super exclusive but I you
know I'd find ways to make it fit it
just you know yeah yeah yeah screw the
wizard to me you have too many spells
wizard yeah for sure you can you can
share with the class okay so okay so
have you do you're more of a player
right in your games were you more good
you are more of a dungeon master oh yeah
it's actually a big meme between me and
my friends about how I am not only not a
player but when I do play I'm an awful
players like I'm a really bad player but
when I I'm a great DM and it's like okay
well like I can't take notes I'm
terrible at listening I don't remember
anything that's going on and I'm I've
always devolved into murder-hobos but
then like but then when i DM it's like
it's it's fine it's well yeah it's cuz
you're right you're maybe like a little
bit too much on vacation right you're
like I don't have to prepare anything
I'm just yeah exactly I'm gonna do
whatever I want just a guy I guess no
that's interesting that's interesting I
thought for some reason that you were
you played more I think it's just
because oh wow it's my skits in in all
of my videos and all of my skits I'm a
player because I make player videos and
I don't very make very many DM videos so
I make Logan the DNA
even though Logan I'm pretty sure teams
like one of our like nine games and
eight of those game and so yeah like if
we have if we have 12 games
Logan deems one another friend diems the
other an ID and the other ten so like
it's my primary yeah we have a lot of
games
oh my gosh and I've actually been trying
to cut down on a lot yeah I think I play
almost every day that's cool whoa look I
mean that's probably that's probably
good yeah it's no it's fine I really
enjoy it it's and sometimes I'm just
like home and yeah I'm tired of this kid
that's super funny look I mean yeah dude
that's wild
so do you do you live with some of other
people from the crew
are you in your own I live with my I
live with my fiance and I live with my
roommate and and yeah and then actually
actually and then my other friend Tyler
he lives across the street we're all
like for some reason I got that
impression that it was like there was a
like you guys are not a long living yeah
yeah you're well you're not alone yeah I
know no well we live in a small town so
and Logan of the rune Smith is is about
like a like a five minute drive okay
yeah like he lives just right over there
his videos are good so yeah his videos
are great he's incredible series yeah
you should talk to him sometime I feel
like you two would get along yeah yeah
yeah I think so um but man this was so
okay full disclosure we did oh no yeah
it stopped it stopped okay
[__] anyway so his channel is XP to
level 3 if you didn't already know go
and check that out he may or may not
makes dumb videos and and do you have
any like streams or anything that you
want to shout out before oh yeah if you
want to watch me play D&D and with all
my friends come hang out in our chat
have some fun we have a youtube channel
called arcane arcade and we stream
almost every Friday and Saturday so yeah
yeah that's the end of the video standby